{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1347\cocoasubrtf570
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red180\green36\blue25;\red47\green180\blue29;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15300\viewh10100\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++\
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++  README v1 +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ \
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
This UFO file contains an implementation of the SM plus Axion-like Particle (ALP) extension described in arXiv:1708.00443. The UFO implementation can be used with MadGraph5_aMC@NLO available at https://launchpad.net/mg5amcnlo.\
This UFO file is build based on the SM.fr file and the HiggsEffective.fr file. The latter introduces effective vertices between the Higgs and gluons and photons, with the coupling order HIG=1 (gluons) and HIW=1 (photons). All ALP couplings have the coupling order NP=1.\
\
Please move the ALP folder in the mg5 models directory!\
\
The additional parameters in the param_card.dat are:\
\
gPu = The universal coupling of the ALP to up-type quarks (up, charm, top). This coupling is called $c_\{QQ\}^\{eff\}$ in equation (30) in arXiv:1708.00443. The default value is 1.\
\
gPd = The universal coupling of the ALP to down-type quarks (down, strange, bottom). This coupling is called $c_\{QQ\}^\{eff\}$ in equation (30) in arXiv:1708.00443. The default value is 1.\
\
gPl = The universal coupling of the ALP to leptons (tau, muon, electron). This coupling is called $c_\{ll\}^\{eff\}$ in equation (23) in arXiv:1708.00443. The default value is 1.\
\
cah = Coupling of the SM Higgs to 2 ALPs. This coupling is called $C_\{ah\}^\{eff\}$ in equation (50) in arXiv:1708.00443. The default value is 1.\
\
cZh5 = Coupling of the SM Higgs to an ALP and a Z boson. This coupling is called $C_\{Zh\}^\{eff\}$ in equation (44) in arXiv:1708.00443. The default value is 1.\
\
cAA = Coupling of the ALP to photons. This coupling is called $C_\{\\gamma\\gamma\}$ in equation (7) in arXiv:1708.00443. The default value is 1.\
\
cZA = Coupling of the ALP to one Z gauge boson and one photon. This coupling is called $C_\{\\gamma Z\}$ in equation (7) in arXiv:1708.00443. The default value is 1.\
\
cGG= Coupling of the ALP to gluons. This coupling is called $C_\{GG\}$ in equation (1) in arXiv:1708.00443. The default value is 1.\
\
MALP= Mass of the ALP to gluons. This coupling is called $m_\{a,0\}$ in equation (1) in arXiv:1708.00443. The default value is 1 GeV.\
\
WALP= Total width of the ALP to gluons. If set to Auto the total and partial decay widths are calculated by MadGraph. The default value is 1 GeV.\
\
Lambda = Suppression scale in the effective operators coupling the ALP to SM particles, called $\\Lambda$ in equation (1) in arXiv:1708.00443. The default value is 1000 GeV.\
\
\
\
CAUTION: All NP couplings are set to 1 per default and the ALP width is 1 GeV. For any process, please adjust the values and write \
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f1\fs22 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 Do you want to edit a card (press enter to bypass editing)?\
/------------------------------------------------------------\\\
|  \cf2 1\cf0 . param : \cf3 param_card.dat\cf0                                  |\
|  \cf2 2\cf0 . run   : \cf3 run_card.dat\cf0                                    |\
\\------------------------------------------------------------/\
 you can also\
   - enter the path to a valid card or banner.\
   - use the 'set' command to modify a parameter directly.\
     The set option works only for param_card and run_card.\
     Type 'help set' for more information on this command.\
   - call an external program (ASperGE/MadWidth/...).\
     Type 'help' for the list of available command\
 [\ul 0\ulnone , done, 1, param, 2, run, enter path] \
>set WALP auto\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \CocoaLigature1  \
to enable automatic calculation of the ALP width for the required couplings. The Higgs and Z widths are automatically adjusted after the ALP mass and couplings are set.\
\
In case of any questions etc. please write to one of the authors of arXiv:1708.00443:\
\
bauer@thphys.uni-heidelberg.de\
\
matthias.neubert@uni-mainz.de\
\
Andrea.Thamm@cern.ch\
\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++  SYNTAX +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++  \
\
In the following, we give the MadGraph syntax used to generate the exotic Z and Higgs decays described in sections 6.1 (Z > a ALP), 5.1 (h > ALP Z), 5.2 (h > ALP ALP) in arXiv:1708.00443.\
\
\
The Z to ALP and photon decay with subsequent ALP decay into photons can be generated with \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f1\fs22 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 MG5_aMC> 
\f0\fs24 \CocoaLigature1 import model ALP\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f1\fs22 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 MG5_aMC> generate p p > Z, (Z > a ALP, (ALP > a a))
\f0\fs24 \CocoaLigature1  \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
The h to ALP and Z decay with subsequent ALP decay into photons and Z decay into electrons can be generated with \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f1\fs22 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 MG5_aMC> 
\f0\fs24 \CocoaLigature1 import model ALP\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f1\fs22 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 MG5_aMC> generate p p > h, (h > ALP Z, ( ALP > a a ) , ( Z > e+ e- ) )
\f0\fs24 \CocoaLigature1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
The h to 2ALP decay with subsequent ALP decay into photons and muons can be generated with \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f1\fs22 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 MG5_aMC> 
\f0\fs24 \CocoaLigature1 import model ALP\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f1\fs22 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 MG5_aMC> generate p p > h, (h > ALP ALP, ( ALP > a a ) , ( ALP > mu+ mu- ) )
\f0\fs24 \CocoaLigature1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
\
\
}